# Pitch: Lending Transparency to DHS' Social Media Claims

The Department of Homeland Security's social media accounts have taken on a starkly accusatory tone under the second Trump administration. Officials' use of social media has come under fire in assault cases like that of Marimar Martinez in Chicago. FBI Director Kash Patel reposted bystander a video of an alleged assault incorrectly attributed to Martinez, causing a DHS spokeperson to publicly clarify that the video was not of Martinez, but not without accusing both her and the video's subject of federal crimes.

But perhaps even more alarmingly, officials have used the department's official government accounts to post the photos of people who they are targetting in Immigrations and Customs Enforcement Operations, alleging past convictions of crimes from traffic violations to serious, violent offenses. Evidence, whether through court documents or even just case numbers, don't accompany their posts. And no one has *really* checked those claims yet. Can DHS officials be trusted to post accurate information about the people whose faces they're putting into the public eye? Or are they bringing serious allegations of criminality against immigrants that are unsupportable and unlitigated?

I propose to choose a set period, maybe a month or two, and gather my own data from DHS's account on X in an effort to answer those questions. First, I'll catalogue all posts from the department that include allegations against a named person. Then, I'll check court records based on that name and catalogue the convictions and charges that come up. My findings will show what amount of alleged crimes are litigated and decided, what amount never resulted in conviction and what amount are not backed by court records. 

These findings will make up my nutgraf, and my story will be a larger examination not only of how reliable the department's claims are, but the effects of litigating the allegations that have not been decidely convicted by a jury in the court of public opinion. I hope to create an area-chart-like visualization to accompany my data, showing the proportional groups of each level of supportability. The main limitations of a project like this are its parameters — I can't possibly, by myself, catalogue every single relavent DHS X post from the past year. The solution, in my view, will be to be clear and honest to readers about the period that I'm pulling data from, and to avoid sweeping claims. It's very possible that many, even most, of the allegations are supported by conviction in a jury trial. But, we can't know until someone has checked.

